>> Mike North: One thing that is a little
bit interesting here is we are using,
as we run through our tests, and
as we go through in
particular the log in test.
Wrong log in test,
>> Mike North: Yeah,
the logout test, let's look at this one.
So if we go through this logout test which
we wrote earlier where we start on teams
and we click on the logout button and
we find ourselves at the log in screen,
presumably unauthenticated at that point.
We're going to run into a problem
in the very near future and
that problem has to do with the fact
that as we run through the tests,
the tests are actually reading from and
writing to your local storage.
It would be really annoying for
us if we started to build on this without
addressing the problem there because
you could basically start logged in and
then as soon as you run your test,
find yourself very quickly logged out.
Because you've gone through this test and
it's clicked the log out button and
that really writes to local storage.
So what we need to do is create
a service that looks very similar
to the off service and
to kinda stub that in during testing so
that no interaction with
local storage is happening.
And it's not too bad to do this.
So I do anticipate we're gonna
need it in a couple of places so
I'm gonna define this mock
service in another file.
And then I'll show you how to install it
in a test like this to ensure that this
isn't something that'll sting
us as we start moving forward.
So in my test folder I'm
just gonna create a new
folder that stubs and
I'm gonna create a file
in there that's called auth-service.
>> Mike North: In here I'm gonna
import the same service base class.
>> Mike North: And,
>> Mike North: We're gonna export class
auth service, extends service.
And we need login with user ID.
I'm remembering what our
old service looked like.
In fact, I'm gonna open it just to
make things as easy as possible so
we can look at them side by side.
So I need current user ID, I need that
to be a property I can at least access.
So for now,
>> Mike North: We'll just make it
a value-based property,
login with current user ID.
We can just do something like this,
>> Mike North: Right?
We're not writing to
local storage anymore,
we're just holding this as a class field.
It's very disposable,
not gonna effect anything else.
And then we need the router so
I'll just grab this and
we can inject the real router service.
We are totally fine with a real
transition to another URL.
It's the state that creates problems for
us.
So I just copied and
pasted this piece of code here where
we're injecting the router service.
And I'm just gonna grab
the related imports necessary to
support that piece of code and
paste them up here.
And we have a very simple service here.
You can imagine once
we get to logging out,
it'd be very easy to clear
that current user ID, right?
It's all very nice and
self-contained and disposable.
So now that we have this,
we simply need to wire it up in our test.
So that before each of our
tests starts running, we
install this mock object as
the service you get when you want off.
So you get this instead of the real one.
Here's how we're going to do that.
We're going to use Q units hook,
it's called before each.
And I'm just gonna show you we have
before and after so that's like for
your whole module of tests, right?
So that before and after it would be for
everything contained within this module.
Before each it's gonna be before and
after each of these many tests
that you may have in there.
And I want each test to get a clean
service so I don't have to worry about-
A much more cumbersome approach could be,
read the current state of local storage.
Now set it to null, now run through
the test, now restore that previous state.
It sounds like a lot of shuffling.
And if anything goes wrong and I never
reach that clean up phase at the end
I can't rely on any subsequent
test results being valid.
This much easier, it's nice and
self-contained and disposable.
Before each and
we're gonna pass in a function to
run that's sort of a per test setup.
And we're gonna go this.owner,
which is an object you can think of
this is like your application, right?
So this that you customize the app
before you kick the test off.
This owner register, and
we're gonna register a service
and provide it with a constructor,
and there we go.
That is all we need to do.
This owner register, and
we're registering a service, and
here is the class for
the service we wish to use.
I'm gonna save this, and our tests run
successfully, and I wanna set a break
point in here, so we can confirm that
we are in fact stopping at this.
Looks like we may not be.
Let's see, loginWithUserId.
>> Speaker 2: You're on the log out test,
the log in test.
You haven't used that
service to log out yet.
>> Mike North: We should be using it to
log in though, let me just think here for
a moment, okay.
>> Speaker 2: We didn't write any
test actually log in, we just changed
the value of the user we're going to
use and check [CROSSTALK] disabled.
>> Mike North: Got it okay, okay so
it's gonna be hard to verify this for now.
I do wanna kinda prove
to ourselves this works.
Trying to think of a quick and
easy way to do it.
>> Speaker 3: The button?
>> Mike North: Yeah, I could.
I'll use our pause test helper.
So I can pause in
the middle of this test and
I will there is nothing that calls,
yeah that will work.
So pause test, all right so
here is our little mini app,
I'm gonna log out,
>> Mike North: And,
>> Mike North: Here we are at the login
screen.
I'm gonna select a user, sign in,
and we are at our break point and
that break point is in
our mock auth service.
So this is proof that our little bait and
switch thing was successful.
So we've kinda stubbed out at a very
reasonable point this AuthService.
And I'm, in general,
very against, stubbing in tests.
I think that especially if you're
trying to stub the date constructor or
require which people differ for
wacky reasons.
This can be very difficult
code to maintain.
But for a service where it has a very
well-defined boundary, and it's a nice
encapsulated particular concern,
this is the the best approach to use.
>> Speaker 4: I recently
did something like this for
I had local storage as
a prime data storage.
And, I just changed the key, I prepended
it with a testing at that variable.
>> Mike North: But you're still
contaminating the real local storage.
>> Speaker 4: I know.
>> Mike North: Between tests,
what assurance could you have that 100%
of your local storage was removed?
>> Speaker 4: Do a-
>> Mike North: Iteration through
[CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 4: And clear local storage.
>> Mike North: But now a developer
comes along that mistypes something.
There is some human diligence required for
that to be a successful approach.
Whereas if you had written an abstraction,
a local storage service with a read and
a write method, and instead of actually
reading and writing to local storage you,
that was like the single place your
access is local storage stuff.
You could swap it out and
just hold some stuff in memory and
validate that everything works properly.
You access that memory really quickly.
There's no chance even with a slip
in human diligence that that would
cause problems.
So before we take a quick
little break here,
I do wanna point out that there's
another approach that kind of makes
not a twist on this approach that
sometimes makes a lot of sense.
We could have very well
subclassed the real service.
So if I in my auth service I had
like read from local storage,
write to local storage,
I had those methods.
I could have subclassed the real auth
service, and only replaced those read and
write methods, and that way,
if I added more stuff here that
depends on local storage state,
I don't have to keep updating this mark.
This is sorta the most basic way to do it,
but that that is often a logical
extension of this technique.